https://indieweb.org/Organizers

'''<dfn>Organizers Meetups</dfn>''' (and <dfn>Organizers Summits</dfn>) are half-day events held before IndieWeb Summits, and often quarterly before [[IndieWebCamps]], for everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] or organized [[Homebrew Website Club]] meetups in the past two years. 

* Want to organize an IndieWebCamp?
** See [[IndieWebCamp#How_to_organize|IndieWebCamp: How to organize]]
* Want to organize Homebrew Website Club meetups?
** See [[Homebrew_Website_Club#Getting_Started_or_Restarting|Homebrew Website Club: Getting Started]]
* Other thoughts?
** ...

'''Proposal''': Have you volunteered at a few IndieWebCamps? Ask an organizer for an invitation.
* +1 {{t}} (proposed)
* +1 {{gRegor}}

'''Proposal''': make "organizer" more present tense (active organizers) to emphasize/focus/encourage more active organizing (as well as empower new folks rather than just folks that have been around, with the goal of being more forward inclusive and less insidery). Specific changes:
* from co-organized an IWC (ever), to past 2 years
* from organized HWCs in past two years, to past 12 months
'''Thoughts?'''
* +1 {{t}} - I‚Äôm especially interested in thoughts/feedback from folks who would opt-out, would it be a relief, a feeling of being left out, or encouragement to be more active from now til the next Organizers meetup/summit?
* +1 {{gRegor}}
** I propose adding "or actively organizing an upcoming IWC" to the first condition. For example, while {{eddiehinkle.com}} might otherwise lapse in 2018-12, he is actively organizing [[2019/Online]].
** I'm someone who would be opted-out by these changes and I'm OK with that. It's a little bit of a relief, in the short term (I might feel more freed-up to work on personal things) and in longer term I think it would encourage me to organize again.
* +1 (with caveat) {{eddiehinkle.com}} - I think it helps to aid encouragement. With a strict view of those new changes I would be opted-out. However, I think if you embrace those rules an exception should be if they are actively planning another event (such as IWC). HWCs can be tricky because they could be "planning" an HWC for a long-time which should be discouraged since it shouldn't require as long as an IWC to plan. While the exception would keep me as an Organizer, more than it being about me, I think it embraces the spirit of the rule which is focusing on the present/future over the past.


== next ==
The participants in the [[2017/Organizers|2017 Organizers Summit]] (before [[2017|IWS]]) decided that more frequent (than yearly) Organizers Summits could be beneficial.

Next Organizers meetups/summits:
* [[2019/Berlin/Organizers|Berlin Organizers Meetup]]
* [[2019/Organizers|Organizers Summit 2019]]

The most recent [[2018/Organizers|Organizers Summit]] was 2018-06-25, a day before [[2018|IndieWeb Summit 2018]].

The most recent [[2018/NYC/Organizers|Organizers Meetup]] was 2019-09-27, a day before [[2018/NYC|IndieWebCamp NYC 2018]].

If you're [[planning]] an IndieWebCamp between now and the next summit, and want to organize an Organizers Meetup beforehand, drop a heads-up here linking to your IndieWebCamp's planning page with details about a proposed Organizers Meetup.

== Issues ==
Collect issues here until a specific agenda page for the event is created

=== Accessibility statement for events ===
{{t}}: [[2019/Berlin]] is/was the first [[IndieWebCamp]] with an explicit [[2019/Berlin#Accessiblity|Accessibility statement]].

Should we come up with a general venue accessibility statement for IndieWeb events? (IWC, HWC, Summit)

Should we at least put "Accessibility Statement" on a template so IndieWeb event organizers at least state something then leave it up to each event's organizers?

Goal: ship one for [[2019|Summit]].

=== Inclusivity statement for events ===
{{t}}: review [[inclusivity statement]], get consensus (resolve any issues), establish for future IndieWeb events 

Goal: ship one for [[2019|Summit]].

=== Code of Conduct Updates ===
==== Incorporate XOXO CoC Improvements ====
{{t}}: I'd really like to improve our [[Code of Conduct]] along the lines of the [https://2018.xoxofest.com/conduct XOXO Conference code of conduct] specifically including the XOXO CoC points about "reverse racism" etc. starting with "XOXO prioritizes marginalized people‚Äôs safety over privileged people‚Äôs comfort." as a way to pre-emptively combat the false equivalency behavior that Facebook is documented as engaging in / supporting in https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2019/04/24/facebook-while-black-zucked-users-say-they-get-blocked-racism-discussion/2859593002/
* +1 {{t}} I'd like to discuss this ASAP,
** starting at [[2019/Berlin/Organizers]]
** latest at [[2019/Organizers]]
** goal: deploy update to [[Code of Conduct]] that night effective at [[2019|IndieWeb Summit 2019]] (including describing the updates during the Summit Intro session)
* {{addyourself}}

==== Evaluate if/how to apply Code of Conduct for outside events ====
What do we do if someone shows up at an IndieWeb event who has done things ''outside of IndieWeb events'' that would be considered a violation of the [[CoC]]? There was some discussion at lunch after [[2018/Organizers]] and then occasionally in #meta <sup>[chat log links needed]</sup> about this.
* [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-02 2018-09-02]: What would we do if it was reported that someone had been harassing others via their own site or a federated service like [[Mastodon]]?

==== Add Inclusion Page ====
{{t}}: Would be great to also add a page like https://2018.xoxofest.com/inclusion perhaps at [[inclusion]] and feature it in the Code of Conduct.
* {{addyourself}}

=== Minimum Viable Organizing ===
{{t}}: With many years of experiences with IndieWebCamps and related events, there are some patterns as to what helps things succeed, and what causes things to either fail (not happen), have several under-participation (less than 5?), or drop a lot on the floor (unfulfilled potential).

We should have an open and honest discussion about what it actually takes for minimum viable organizing of an IndieWebCamp, including actual risk mitigations, not just a low bar of "viability", and decide if we want to have explicit requirements on what can be called an "IndieWeb" event (whether meetup, IndieWebCamp, Week etc.), and what those should be (based on successful examples).

Key patterns / potential sources of concern:
* solo (or de-facto solo) organizing
* non-participation in community (not available in chat, not active on wiki)
* not detail oriented
* first time organizer as primary organizer
* ...

Peripheral concerns:
* not [[own your data]] (credibility gap: if an organizer is not (even) owning their notes, are they really credible to be organizing an IndieWebCamp?)
** require organizers to also post Indie [[event]] posts?
* ...

Possible approaches:
* Make a list of requirements to call something an "IndieWebCamp" or otherwise "IndieWeb" event (IndieWeb Week etc.)
* Keep events only in [[Planning]] (not listed on [[Events]]) until requirements are met
* ...

Patterns of success:
* Mentoring new organizers
* What is an ideal number? 3? 4?
* What are ideal divisions of labor?
* ...

=== Video Archive Host ===
{{t}}: Discuss making an official recommendation to use Internet Archive for session video archives instead of YouTube and reasons why (e.g. we did this for D√ºsseldorf upon request, let's explore generalizing it and providing guidance + instructions for IWC organizers to follow in the future), like reduced sense of surveillance (either being in or watching our videos), reduce auto-play of junk-videos (like all the conspiracy theory junk on YouTube), reduce association with junk videos (like the sidebar of suggested videos in YouTube)
* ...

=== Future Meetings ===
[[2017/Organizers#future_meetings|Previous Organizers Summit session]]

{{martijnvdven}}: I think we discussed doing it quarterly, or at least three times a year aligning with major IWCs, at the last Organizers Summit. This still makes a lot of sense to me. Though maybe it has been failing because planning an actual get together the day/night before an event is hard, and we should decouple it from the ‚Äúmajor IWC‚Äù mark?

=== Discussion Channels ===
Noted by {{martijnvdven}} 2018-05-01 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Organizers&diff=next&oldid=47138]

[[2017/Organizers#Discussion_Channels|Previous Organizers Summit session]]

'''which channel for WordPress development'''
* There has been a little discussion about this again lately. As the appeal of the WordPress plugins is growing, more non-gen1 people turn up to #-wordpress looking for help setting things up. To not alienate these people, development talk has shifted back into #-dev.
* User support is nice in #-wordpress, as the main channel is mostly active with gen1-type people on their own custom workflows who can be of little help to WordPress setups. The people who do run WordPress are probably in #-wordpress and happy to help there.
* WordPress plugin development, especially if multiple devs are online, can quickly fill up all of #-dev. This was one of the original reasons there was a fork into #-wordpress: [[2017/Organizers#Discussion_Channels]] so we should stick with that. If there's a need for separate WP channels for WP users vs WP devs, we can consider that.

=== IndieWeb Community Infrastructure ===
* What services are essential for running the IndieWeb community resources, and who has access to them?
** Content
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[wiki]] [https://github.com/indieweb/wiki available on GitHub].
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[discuss|chat]] logs [https://github.com/indieweb/indieweb-chat-archive available on GitHub].
** Domain name(s)
*** Who has access to <code><nowiki>indieweb.org</nowiki></code>, can configure the DNS, etc?
*** How can access to these be split amongst several people?
** Communication
*** Who can manage the [[Slack]] server / channels?
*** Who can manage the [[IRC]] channels?
**** It looks like we have several <code>+o</code> people. Are they all listed as Founders or equal on ChanServ?
**** all ops are in US timezones and thus not available on EU mornings (discussed 2017-12-17 due to small spam-wave on Freenode)
**** Is there anything to gain from [https://freenode.net/groupreg registering with Freenode]? (or has this been done already?)
*** Is there any managing we have to do for the [[Matrix]] bridge?
*** How quickly could a new Slack bridge be created if [[Loqi]] goes down? The bridge code is [https://github.com/aaronpk/Slack-IRC-Gateway available on GitHub].
** Official channels
*** Again, who has access, and what are the backups?
*** There is an official [[Twitter]]: [https://twitter.com/indiewebcamp @indiewebcamp]
*** There is an official [[GitHub]]: [https://github.com/indieweb/ IndieWeb]
** For projects we depend on, e.g. the Slack bridge, should they be mirrored to the indieweb GitHub account? That way the community has them even if the original author decides the remove their repository.
** Third parties we depend on? Can more of these be self-hosted?
*** Currently the wiki login only works through [[IndieAuth.com]].

=== Kid Friendliness ===
For IWC organising, is it interesting to state kid friendliness somewhere?

* Sparked by {{citation
| title = Kid friendly PHP
| url = https://24daysindecember.net/2017/12/16/kid-friendly-php/
| author = <a href="http://www.elenakolevska.com/" class="h-card">Elena Kolevska</a>
| published = 2017-12-16
}}

=== Travel Assistance ===
{{t}}
* how well is it working?
* how can it be improved? donations, applications, reviews, approvals, etc.

{{aaronpk}}
* Should this be available for any IndieWebCamp? or just Summit?
* How can we formalize this as an ongoing thing, either as a standing fund for any IWC or as an annual Summit thing?
* We need to document and publicize the process for applying, reviewing, and approving requests
* We should try to get matching donations when we can

=== Evaluate barrier of entry to wiki / wiki use-case ===
Added by: {{martijnvdven}}

This came up in relation to diversity, mostly regarding how accessible the community is to new entrants. Please read the discussion in [[discuss#Chat_Channels|the #indieweb-meta chat channel]] from [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535814753677600 2018-09-01, 15:12 UTC], to [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535821711745500 about 17:08]. Some choice bullet points and quotes:

* {{aaronpk}} [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535814753677600 asked Jon] if they could add their feedback on [[diversity]] to the wiki. This is a relatively common thing within the community to do: putting stuff on the wiki is [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535815252429300 an established workflow], and so is asking others to contribute to the wiki.
* Jon pointed out that this adds some definite barrier of entry for people. They had to go [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535817206298700 through multiple steps] ‚Äì¬†taking a good 20 minutes ‚Äì to add something to the wiki. Something they had already thought to have communicated through chat.
** <blockquote style="border-left:5px solid #c8ccd1;margin-left:20px;padding-left:20px">The barrier restricts participation to the current non-diverse group of insiders. The default response of ‚Äúput it on the wiki‚Äù immediately confronts outsiders people with this barrier. I‚Äôve talked with more than one person who checked out the Indieweb chat room and had the reaction that it was a really hostile place because of this and so decided not to get involved.</blockquote>
** <blockquote style="border-left:5px solid #c8ccd1;margin-left:20px;padding-left:20px">the situation was somebody (me) who‚Äôs not in the core Indieweb community had some suggestions about how to make it more diverse. The response was to ask me to put it on the wiki. Requiring IndieAuth is a barrier to the group getting suggestions from a outside the core. No matter what the purpose of the wiki is, that‚Äôs going to be a problem for diversity</blockquote>
* {{martijnvdven}} [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535821219335100 feels that] the solution depends on whether the wiki is meant for this type of feedback or not. And that the barrier to entry should be adjusted depending on that.
** <blockquote style="border-left:5px solid #c8ccd1;margin-left:20px;padding-left:20px">my point is that the solution to the situation depends on us deciding what the wiki is for. Either we lower the barrier for wiki edits, or we stop asking people who aren't assimilated in to the community to put their feedback on the wiki.</blockquote>
* {{aaronpk}} [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-09-01#t1535821266527900 clarifies that] the existing barriers (mainly the [[IndieAuth]]/[[RelMeAuth]] requirement) are there by design.
* {{martijnvdven}} is especially interested in hearing from Organizers who have helped onboarding new users on the wiki. {{t}} and {{jgmac1106}} come to mind.
* The wiki used to be the way to register for IWC, so this barrier made sense to help restrict  to [[creators]] or their apprentices. At [[2016]], we started selling tickets so this wasn't a barrier for IWC. Currently, I think this barrier primarily serves to keep spam off the wiki. I'm open to the idea of opening registration to the wiki somehow. I know that's probably not trivial and makes more work for organizers (some coding to make regular + IndieAuth sign-in work, moderating spam accounts), but maybe it's worth it? <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 22:19, 2 September 2018 (PDT)

=== Promoting Events ===
{{t}}: Let's improve how we promote our events, towards goals of:
* increasing participation overall
* especially increasing [[diversity]] of participation
* especially increasing breadth of [[generations]] represented

Some ideas:

* Set dates farther in advance
** e.g. for IWS [[2020]], set dates *before* IWS [[2019]], and at least a venue/date confirmed *before* next year's XOXO for the *next* IWS (2020)
** Design, print, distribute "save the date" postcards
*** e.g. during IWS and XOXO where people are motivated to plan a trip back to Portland ASAP
*** or without a date/venue, and get people to put their address on them and offer to mail them out when we know the date & venue!
** The sooner we can send "save the date" announcements/card, the sooner that folks interested can blockout the dates on their calendar so that when it *does* come to decision time months later, they find they have the time to go (and have not accidentally scheduled something else that weekend)
* Make postcards to hand out in person
** 1. designer for "save the date" post cards
** 2. printing a whole bunch of them in full color
*** we could also create a *physical mail* sign-up list for people to receive post-cards when we know the date and print cards later.
** 3. pre-stamp cards for mailing said post cards to said people signed-up
* Participate in diverse events (like [[XOXO]]) and hand out "save the date" post cards etc.
** [[XOXO]]
** WordCamp
** ... other diverse and broad [[generations]] spectrum events for creatives
* "Save the date" stamp to stamp the backs of stickers, along with the classic "library date" stamp for start-end dates!
** allows cheap just-in-time re-use of existing generic IWC sticker stock, and customizing for any event in the future as soon as its dates are known!
* ...

Thoughts?
* ...

== planning considerations ==
* Location requires good internet for streaming
* Some kind of conference room microphone or professional videoconference setup (Mozilla locations have [[Vidyo]], which has worked well)
** see also: [[remote participation]]
* time: due to the international nature of the community, good times are mornings on the US west coast and evenings in Europe (e.g. [[2017/Organizers]] was at 09:00 PDT (UTC-7) == 16:00 UTC == 18:00 CEST (UTC+2)


== Events Issues ==
session migrated to [[Organizers/event_pages]]

== Events Brainstorming ==
section migrated to [[Organizers/event_pages]]

== Brainstorming ==
Below is my brainstorm for a '''How To''' section for this page after our discussion at [[2018/NYC/Organizers]].

Each new meetup page would also include a link to this How To section and a note that attending organizers can add urgent issues directly on that page. <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 14:20, 27 September 2018 (PDT)

----
=== How To ===
==== Add an Issue ====
Everyone is encouraged to add new issues to [[Organizers#Issues]]. If you prefer to raise an issue privately, you can [[code-of-conduct#Resolving_an_Issue|contact a community organizer]]. When adding an issue to the wiki, please include the current date.

If you are an organizer who is attending the next meetup and there is an urgent issue, you can add it directly to the agenda on that meetup's page.

==== Process Issues at the Organizers Meetup ====
* Create an etherpad for the meetup
* Review the task list from the previous meetup
* Review the issues on the meetup's agenda, open issues from the previous meetup, and [[Organizers#Issues]] to prioritize the sessions
* Add sessions to the etherpad as they are discussed
** Copy the issue's wiki text into the etherpad, then take notes underneath. This makes archiving easier.

==== Archive after the Organizers Meetup ====
* Archive the etherpad sessions in the '''Sessions''' section of the meetup's page, including the original issue's wiki text
** Remove the original issue from [[Organizers#Issues]]. Include a link to the meetup session in the edit summary.
* Add any todos to the '''Task List''' section
* Add any issues that require further discussion to the '''Open Issues''' section
----

== past ==
These meetups were formerly called <dfn>Leaders Meetups</dfn>. At the [[2018/NYC/Organizers|2018 NYC Organizers Meetup]] organizers decided to rename them to avoid the sound of elitism or intentional hierarchy; and because we want to encourage anyone to become an organizer!

{{#categorytree:Organizers Meetups|mode=pages|hideroot=on}}

== See Also ==
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WqnhN2Rzaqc üòÇ (in case we forget)
* Read before organizing an IndieWebCamp, and keep in mind how such BarCamps are different from professional paid conferences: 2018-12-17 SmashingMagazine: [https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/12/state-of-commercial-web-conferences-events/ Don‚Äôt Pay To Speak At Commercial Events]
* [[2019/homepage]]
* Capture food preferences/requirements for IndieWebCamp tickets, OR at a minimum express up front what the food provided will be, e.g. OSBridge was very upfront that only vegan food was provided for lunch (if folks want to supplement with their own they can do so)
* Consider aspects of other conference "onsite resources" and if we can provide similar things, or at least make explicit instead of passive decisions about them: https://www.drupaleurope.org/onsite-resources
* * {{t}}: discuss a [[sustainability]] policy like https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Sustainability_Initiative
