https://indieweb.org/2018/Leaders

{{stub}}

The '''<dfn>Leaders Summit</dfn>''' is a half-day of activities and sessions before [[2018|IndieWeb Summit 2018]], for everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] in the past two years or at least two Homebrew Website Club meetups with at least one meetup photo.

== Who ==
Similar to [[2017/Leaders]], the [[2018/Leaders|Leaders]] Summit sessions are open to everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] from 2015-2018, planning an IndieWebCamp later this year, or co-organized at least two [[Homebrew Website Club]] meetups during those years, and posted at least one meetup photo. If you’re not sure, ask an [[2018#Organizers|organizer]]. 
* Want to organize an IndieWebCamp before the Summit?
** See [[IndieWebCamp#How_to_organize|IndieWebCamp: How to organize]]
* Want to organize Homebrew Website Club meetups before the Summit?
** See [[Homebrew_Website_Club#Getting_Started_or_Restarting|Homebrew Website Club: Getting Started]]
* Other thoughts?
** ...

== RSVP ==
Please add yourself below if you will be participating in the Leaders Summit (alphabetical by full name)
* {{aaronpk}}
* {{gwg}}
* {{gRegor}}
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{t}}
* {{Jgregorymcverry.com}}
* ...

=== Remote Participation ===
If you can't make it in person but you're available to participate remotely, please add yourself below. Please note that we'll likely make use of Mozilla's remote conference setup, which requires the [https://v.mozilla.com/download.html?lang=en Vidyo Desktop Client].
The link to join the live chat will be at https://2018.indieweb.org/vidyo
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{calumryan}}
* {{petermolnar}} (might be problematic though due to potential hotel wifi issues)
* {{eddiehinkle.com}} (might not be able to attend the full-time, but I'd like to attend when possible)
* {{kevinmarks} (will connect from the office, may be interrupted)
* ...

=== Regrets ===
Sorry to miss you, let us know if you can't make it and we'll try to reach out with specifics that may apply to your city.
* {{sknebel}} probably won't have time

== When ==
[[File:2017-174-kure-promise.jpg|thumb|x340px|left|[https://kurejuicebar.com/ KURE] Promise.<br>Good enough for breakfast, good enough for IndieWeb!]]
* Monday June 25, 9am Pacific Time
** 2018-06-25 09:00 - 13:30 PDT (UTC-7)
** 2018-06-25 16:00 - 20:30 UTC
** 2018-06-25 18:00 - 22:30 CEST (UTC+2)

=== Schedule ===
Monday 2018-06-25:

* 08:15 Leaders breakfast at [https://foursquare.com/v/kure-juice-bar/55fb20fb498ec525ef1df954 Kure Juice Bar], 408 SW 12th Ave (at SW Stark)
* 09:00 Leaders Summit (LS) start &amp; intros
* 09:30 Leaders Summit Sessions
* 13:00 Leaders Summit Wrap-up & Next Steps
* 13:30 Leaders Summit closes and
* 13:37 lunch outside and free time
** ...

Other Leaders related activities (just FYI, unless you want to help)
* ...

<br style="clear:both"><br><!--whitespace for floating image-->

== What ==
* {{t}}
** What did we think we did right / better / worse compared to last year?
** What did we leave open / unresolved from [[2017/Leaders]]?
** What new community challenges have we encountered since?
** What are the most important things we can do to improve the community in the coming uyear?
** Which of those are the easiest / most scalable?
* Remaining/ongoing tasks from [[2017/Leaders#Task_List]]
** Home page
*** Move events content from home page to events.indieweb.org or for the time being, /events
*** Make the content appropriate for the next generation of people that we want to attract
*** Make sure home page is still personable, has photos, shows community
* ...

== Where ==
08:00 Breakfast: [https://kurejuicebar.com/ KURE] ([https://foursquare.com/v/kure-juice-bar/55fb20fb498ec525ef1df954 Foursquare: Kure Juice Bar]), 408 SW 12th Ave (at SW Stark)

09:00-13:30 Leaders Summit meeting: [https://wiki.mozilla.org/MozPDX Mozilla Portland]! (PDX-3-320 Hair of the Dog, has Vidyo)

13:37 Lunch after: TBD offsite

== Photos ==
'''The Leaders on call (not all pictured)'''

'''Out for lunch'''

== Notes ==
* [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-25 IRC notes]

== Sessions ==
If you will be participating in the Day 0 Leaders Summit, please add your session ideas here with name, hashtag, and session idea name. Please add nested list-items with "+1 yourname" for sessions you want to participate in!

See [[2017/Leaders#Sessions|Last Year's Sessions]] or [[2016/Leaders#Sessions|2016 Sessions]] for ideas. The global [[Leaders]] page has a running list of [[Leaders#Issues|issues]], some of which are very long-standing.

=== New ideas ===

==== [[CoC]] Review and Designated Contacts for Chat ====
'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

This session could be combined with a general discussion going through [[Leaders#Code_of_Conduct|previously raised issues]] and [[code-of-conduct-feedback#Open_Discussions|feedback]]. As for the reason of this proposal:

Recently {{martijnvdven}} was contacted by someone who felt another community member in the [[chat]] had gone beyond what would be respectable per the [[Code of Conduct]]. This brought up a number of interesting things:

# They contacted me because they see me around a lot, and had seen I was online at the time of the incident. It is possible they also went and contacted other “leaders”. Without a central contact or a side-channel for leaders to discuss these issues, I have no way of knowing.
# <p>Because of how the IndieWeb chat is used asynchronously a lot of the time, the parties involved were not online at the same time. This means that the “Resolve Peacefully” and “Apologize for Mistakes” sections are a lot harder to effectively apply. This is definitely the CoC falling short (in {{martijnvdven}}’s humble opinion) and its base in [[code-of-conduct-feedback#Event_Specific|physical events]] shows.</p><p>Recently there was a little thing in the chat where someone made their displeasure known about something, and {{tantek}} urged the two parties to talk it out and use the unlogged #indieweb-chat. (Paraphrasing as I can’t find it in the logs right now.) This is the CoC getting applied well, but only worked because at that time the chat was being used synchronously.</p>

'''Interested:'''
* {{martijnvdven}} — I would like to specifically take a moment to discuss what methods we “leaders” (or the appointed CoC contacts for chat) should use to resolve conflicts smoothly and expeditiously. Especially how to do this without blowing every issue into the wide open for everyone to see and comment on.
* {{addyourself}}

==== Designate [[CoC]] Contacts for [[2018|IWS]] ====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

We should offer people a number of possible contact points in case they feel any [[Code of Conduct]] breach has taken place.

'''Interested'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== IndieWeb principles split and reorg ====
'''Proposer:''' {{jgmac1106}}, 2018-04-18 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Leaders&diff=prev&oldid=46971]
* in order to have more inclusive, gen2-3-4 friendly indieweb descriptions, the idea to reorganize the principles had come up, starting from most gen4 oriented downwards to gen1 oriented.
** {{tantek}}: Start more modest, just rephrasing to be inclusive of gen2. Then get gen2 folks to help write a gen3 friendly version. It is highly unlikely that gen1 folks will be able to write effectively for gen3+ (too different a perspective).

'''Interested:'''
* {{petermolnar}}
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== Re-evaluate sponsorship policy ====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}, 2018-04-19 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Leaders&diff=next&oldid=47014]

* Currently we have a bunch of links in the footer from hosts from several years ago. Might want to consider a more formal/strict policy of when those fall off the page and are only shown on the specific event page.

'''Interested:'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== non-profit organization ====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

{{aaronpk}}: As the community grows, having a formal organization could benefit us in a few ways. There has been some talk in [[discuss|chat]] of a "bug bounty" program or having a fund to support individual projects. While I don't think IndieWeb itself should become a formal organization, there is definitely an opportunity for other individuals to form adjacent organizations to handle things. 

examples:
* [https://rubytogether.org/ Ruby Together] "Ruby Together is a grassroots initiative committed to supporting the critical Ruby infrastructure you rely on"

related discussion:
* http://fionavoss.blog/2018/05/11/68541
* https://micro.blog/manton/554671

'''Interested:'''
* {{addyourself}}

==== GitHub Community Management and Overlap ====
'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

# There is currently an odd overlap between the GitHub organisations [https://github.com/microformats/ <code>microformats</code>] and [https://github.com/indieweb/ <code>indieweb</code>].
# It is also unclear how people can join the IndieWeb organisation in the first place.

Can we solidify some sort of guidelines? See '''notes''' below.

'''Interested'''
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{addyourself}}

'''Notes'''
* The PHP parser is a project of the IndieWeb organisation, while the Python one is under the Microformats organisation. Is this just a legacy thing? Where would future projects go?
* Is there a magical point where we will ask projects to move their repository under one of the organisations?
** This goes back to a point {{GWG}} made on “how to decide what belongs” to the community.
* When {{jgarber}} asked [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529605111729200 how to become a member], nobody could really give a clear answer ([https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606076718800 “just judgment”]).
** {{kartikprabhu}} turned out to have [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606067299600 owner status] but [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606095482500 didn’t know how/when he got it].

==== prep for keynotes tomorrow ====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

{{aaronpk}}: We should spend a little time prepping/rehearsing for keynote demos the next morning, to make sure the demos are snappy and to the point and don't take up a ton of the morning time. Last year I think we were a little too rambly in the morning without making a clear point.

{{gRegor}}: Review [[2018/Introduction]] and make sure it covers everything. See typical IWC introduction list in HTML comments on the page.

'''Interested:'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== IndieWeb Community Infrastructure ====
'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

Currently the IndieWeb (as an organisation) is using several services, but it is not always clear who to contact about which part. It may be good to compile a list of third-parties that are depended upon, and who the contacts are for those.

Possible discussion points, taken from [[Leaders#Issues|the running issues]]:

* What services are essential for running the IndieWeb community resources, and who has access to them?
** Content
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[wiki]] [https://github.com/indieweb/wiki available on GitHub].
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[discuss|chat]] logs [https://github.com/indieweb/indieweb-chat-archive available on GitHub].
** Domain name(s)
*** Who has access to <code><nowiki>indieweb.org</nowiki></code>, can configure the DNS, etc?
*** How can access to these be split amongst several people?
** Communication
*** Who can manage the [[Slack]] server / channels?
*** Who can manage the [[IRC]] channels?
**** It looks like we have several <code>+o</code> people. Are they all listed as Founders or equal on ChanServ?
***** All 5 [[discuss#Chat_Channels|chat channels]] list {{benthatmustbeme}} and {{aaronpk}} as Founder. (Checkable by writing <code>/msg ChanServ INFO #indieweb</code> in your IRC client.)
**** all ops are in US timezones and thus not available on EU mornings (discussed 2017-12-17 due to small spam-wave on Freenode)
**** Is there anything to gain from [https://freenode.net/groupreg registering with Freenode]? (or has this been done already?)
*** Is there any managing we have to do for the [[Matrix]] bridge?
*** How quickly could a new Slack bridge be created if [[Loqi]] goes down? The bridge code is [https://github.com/aaronpk/Slack-IRC-Gateway available on GitHub].
** Official channels
*** Again, who has access, and what are the backups?
*** There is an official [[Twitter]]: [https://twitter.com/indiewebcamp @indiewebcamp]
*** There is an official [[GitHub]]: [https://github.com/indieweb/ IndieWeb]
** For projects we depend on, e.g. the Slack bridge, should they be mirrored to the indieweb GitHub account? That way the community has them even if the original author decides the remove their repository.
** Third parties we depend on? Can more of these be self-hosted?
*** Currently the wiki login only works through [[IndieAuth.com]].

''' Notes '''
* On 2018-05-01 [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-05-01/1525186645668800 several] [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-05-01/1525190543567300 people] brought up [https://www.voidlinux.eu/news/2018/05/serious-issues.html the issues faced by Void Linux]. Here the “project leader” “disappeared”, leaving things like DNS and GitHub uncontrollable by those still in the community.
* The wiki documents IndieWeb [[expenses]]. [[opencollective|Open Collective]] has a separate track of [https://opencollective.com/indieweb#expenses IndieWeb expenses]. These offer a glimpse of the services IndieWeb is paying for, but may not show the complete picture either.

''' Interested '''
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{addyourself}}

=== 2017 Next Time ===
From: [[2017/Leaders#Task_List]]

* Discussion channels
** add bridged -meta
** keep wiki edits in -dev
** add bridged -wordpress
** update #indiechat topic to direct people to #indieweb-chat
* Logos
** consensus they're a good idea
** need to be well-designed, consistent
** used in footers of websites, github, icons, stickers
* Community Repos
** new criteria for moving in (and possibly moving out) repos to (and from) the indieweb org repo on GitHub
** have adaptable thresholds for projects that might need the extra nudge (and that do not allow much plurality anyway) like WP plugins
** aaronpk will look at his repos and possibly move things out. Put out a call to others to look at their repos to?
* organize next iterations on Nov 3 (before IWC Berlin)

'''Interested'''
* ... add yourself if you're interested in a session about this

=== session name ===
Timebox: MM min. (assume 30min by default)

'''Proposer:''' Summary
* DETAILS

== Task List ==
Note the tasks coming out of sessions.

*...

== Planning ==
When?
* Morning of 2018-06-25, because:
** morning = remote participation with European leaders
*** {{petermolnar}} that would be nice indeed
** the "before lunch" time is particularly effective at having a high-cognitive-functioning focused meetup to decide on "hard questions" of community and such
** break for lunch / random leader bonding activity
** afternoon: optional OSBridge barcamp day
** afternoon: or just enjoy Portland outdoors in the sunshine


'''Options: (please note your opinions/thoughts below!)'''
* 9:00-13:30, get your own breakfast beforehand (ok to bring in)
** ...
* 8:00-12:30, kick it off with a DIY veggie breakfast taco bar
** ...

== See Also ==
* [[2018|Back to IndieWeb Summit 2018]]
