https://indieweb.org/2018/Organizers

{{stub}}

The '''<dfn>Organizers Summit</dfn>''' is a half-day of activities and sessions before [[2018|IndieWeb Summit 2018]], for everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] in the past two years or at least two Homebrew Website Club meetups with at least one meetup photo.

== Who ==
Similar to [[2017/Organizers]], the Organizers Summit sessions are open to everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] from 2015-2018, planning an IndieWebCamp later this year, or co-organized at least two [[Homebrew Website Club]] meetups during those years, and posted at least one meetup photo. If you’re not sure, ask an [[2018#Organizers|organizer]]. 
* Want to organize an IndieWebCamp before the Summit?
** See [[IndieWebCamp#How_to_organize|IndieWebCamp: How to organize]]
* Want to organize Homebrew Website Club meetups before the Summit?
** See [[Homebrew_Website_Club#Getting_Started_or_Restarting|Homebrew Website Club: Getting Started]]
* Other thoughts?
** ...

== RSVP ==
Please add yourself below if you will be participating in the Organizers Summit (alphabetical by full name)
* {{aaronpk}}
* {{gwg}}
* {{gRegor}}
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{t}}
* {{Jgregorymcverry.com}}
* ...

=== Remote Participation ===
If you can't make it in person but you're available to participate remotely, please add yourself below. Please note that we'll likely make use of Mozilla's remote conference setup, which requires the [https://v.mozilla.com/download.html?lang=en Vidyo Desktop Client].
The link to join the live chat will be at https://2018.indieweb.org/vidyo
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{calumryan}}
* {{petermolnar}} (might be problematic though due to potential hotel wifi issues)
* {{eddiehinkle.com}} (might not be able to attend the full-time, but I'd like to attend when possible)
* {{kevinmarks} (will connect from the office, may be interrupted)
* ...

=== Regrets ===
Sorry to miss you, let us know if you can't make it and we'll try to reach out with specifics that may apply to your city.
* {{sknebel}} probably won't have time

== When ==
[[File:2017-174-kure-promise.jpg|thumb|x340px|left|[https://kurejuicebar.com/ KURE] Promise.<br>Good enough for breakfast, good enough for IndieWeb!]]
* Monday June 25, 9am Pacific Time
** 2018-06-25 09:00 - 13:30 PDT (UTC-7)
** 2018-06-25 16:00 - 20:30 UTC
** 2018-06-25 18:00 - 22:30 CEST (UTC+2)

=== Schedule ===
Monday 2018-06-25:

* 08:15 Organizers breakfast at [https://foursquare.com/v/kure-juice-bar/55fb20fb498ec525ef1df954 Kure Juice Bar], 408 SW 12th Ave (at SW Stark)
* 09:00 Organizers Summit (LS) start &amp; intros
* 09:30 Organizers Summit Sessions
* 13:00 Organizers Summit Wrap-up & Next Steps
* 13:30 Organizers Summit closes and
* 13:37 lunch outside and free time
** ...

Other Organizers related activities (just FYI, unless you want to help)
* ...

<br style="clear:both"><br><!--whitespace for floating image-->

== What ==
* {{t}}
** What did we think we did right / better / worse compared to last year?
** What did we leave open / unresolved from [[2017/Organizers]]?
** What new community challenges have we encountered since?
** What are the most important things we can do to improve the community in the coming uyear?
** Which of those are the easiest / most scalable?
* Remaining/ongoing tasks from [[2017/Organizers#Task_List]]
** Home page
*** Move events content from home page to events.indieweb.org or for the time being, /events
*** Make the content appropriate for the next generation of people that we want to attract
*** Make sure home page is still personable, has photos, shows community
* ...

== Where ==
08:00 Breakfast: [https://kurejuicebar.com/ KURE] ([https://foursquare.com/v/kure-juice-bar/55fb20fb498ec525ef1df954 Foursquare: Kure Juice Bar]), 408 SW 12th Ave (at SW Stark)

09:00-13:30 Organizers Summit meeting: [https://wiki.mozilla.org/MozPDX Mozilla Portland]! (PDX-3-320 Hair of the Dog, has Vidyo)

13:37 Lunch after: TBD offsite

== Local Participants ==
* {{t}}
* {{gRegor}}
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{gwg}}
* {{aaronpk}}
* {{jgmac1106}}

== Remote Participants ==
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{eddiehinkle.com}}
* {{petermolnar}}
* {{kevinmarks}}
* {{calumryan}}
* {{sknebel}}
* {{petermolnar}}

== Notes ==
* [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-25 IRC notes]
* https://etherpad.indieweb.org/2018-Leaders

Ideas from this page and from [[Organizers#Issues]] were listed in the etherpad and then sessions were put in a rough priority, or given an explicit time slot.

'''Proposed from this page'''

# [[CoC]]
#* CoC Review and Designated Contacts for Chat
#* Designate CoC Contacts for IWS
# GitHub Community Management and Overlap
# IndieWeb principles split and reorg
#* Related from 2017: https://indieweb.org/2017/refresh
# IndieWeb Community Infrastructure (aaronpk)
#* Re-evaluate sponsorship policy (aaronpk)
#* reduce chat noise (jgmac1106)
#* Rename IRC People (gRegorLove)
# Diversity & Inclusion
#* parent / kid friendliness
#* travel assistance - tantek

* 11:30 Photo with remote attendees!
* 13:00 prep for keynotes tomorrow (aaronpk, tantek)

'''Proposed from [[Organizers]]'''
* 15min Future Meetings - zegnat
* 5min Discussion Channels - gwg
* microformats2 parser/issues session (tantek added to /2018/Schedule suggestions)

== Sessions ==
For each session, the original notes/ideas are listed first. The discussion from the Organizers Summit and resulting actions are listed under the discussion subheading for each session.

=== GitHub Community Management and Overlap ===
When: 2018-06-25 10:00

'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

# There is currently an odd overlap between the GitHub organisations [https://github.com/microformats/ <code>microformats</code>] and [https://github.com/indieweb/ <code>indieweb</code>].
# It is also unclear how people can join the IndieWeb organisation in the first place.

* The PHP parser is a project of the IndieWeb organisation, while the Python one is under the Microformats organisation. Is this just a legacy thing? Where would future projects go?
* Is there a magical point where we will ask projects to move their repository under one of the organisations?
** This goes back to a point {{GWG}} made on “how to decide what belongs” to the community.
* When {{jgarber}} asked [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529605111729200 how to become a member], nobody could really give a clear answer ([https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606076718800 “just judgment”]).
** {{kartikprabhu}} turned out to have [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606067299600 owner status] but [https://chat.indieweb.org/dev/2018-06-21#t1529606095482500 didn’t know how/when he got it].

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
* Someone made the indieweb org a long time ago and invited everyone they could think of as an admin, so lots of those people don't really know they are a member anyway
* Proposal: {{GWG}}: moving parsers into microformats org makes sense
* {{tantek}}: mf2 helpers have been pretty indieweb-specific so maybe they should stay under indieweb org

'''Actions:'''
* Move: https://github.com/indieweb/php-mf2 (add gregorlove to microformats gitub community, then he'll move it)
* Move; https://github.com/indieweb/microformats-ruby (contact Jason Garber)
* Document: jf2 spec is on indieweb, so makes sense for the code to live in same org as the spec - so we don't move it.

'''It is also unclear how people can join the IndieWeb organisation in the first place.'''

Can we solidify some sort of guidelines?

* What does it mean to be an owner of the org?
** This should be a small set of people because owners have lots of power over the org configuration.
** {{aaronpk}} suggests: go through existing list of owners and drop them down to member unless they are a "leader"
* What does it mean to be a member?
** anyone who wants to push code to an IndieWeb repo should be allowed to become a member
** we should make it so that any member can write to any repo (e.g. push to master, accept PRs, ...)
*** this may be complicated w/ GitHub's Teams per-repo configuration requirements
* What is the bar for leaving?
** owner-to-member was answered above
** no current pressure to remove members

=== [[CoC]] Review and Designated Contacts for Chat ===
When: 2018-06-25 10:35

'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

This session could be combined with a general discussion going through [[Organizers#Code_of_Conduct|previously raised issues]] and [[code-of-conduct-feedback#Open_Discussions|feedback]]. As for the reason of this proposal:

Recently {{martijnvdven}} was contacted by someone who felt another community member in the [[chat]] had gone beyond what would be respectable per the [[Code of Conduct]]. This brought up a number of interesting things:

# They contacted me because they see me around a lot, and had seen I was online at the time of the incident. It is possible they also went and contacted other “leaders”. Without a central contact or a side-channel for leaders to discuss these issues, I have no way of knowing.
# <p>Because of how the IndieWeb chat is used asynchronously a lot of the time, the parties involved were not online at the same time. This means that the “Resolve Peacefully” and “Apologize for Mistakes” sections are a lot harder to effectively apply. This is definitely the CoC falling short (in {{martijnvdven}}’s humble opinion) and its base in [[code-of-conduct-feedback#Event_Specific|physical events]] shows.</p><p>Recently there was a little thing in the chat where someone made their displeasure known about something, and {{tantek}} urged the two parties to talk it out and use the unlogged #indieweb-chat. (Paraphrasing as I can’t find it in the logs right now.) This is the CoC getting applied well, but only worked because at that time the chat was being used synchronously.</p>

'''Interested:'''
* {{martijnvdven}} — I would like to specifically take a moment to discuss what methods we “leaders” (or the appointed CoC contacts for chat) should use to resolve conflicts smoothly and expeditiously. Especially how to do this without blowing every issue into the wide open for everyone to see and comment on.
* {{addyourself}}

'''Designate [[CoC]] Contacts for [[2018|IWS]]'''
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

We should offer people a number of possible contact points in case they feel any [[Code of Conduct]] breach has taken place.

'''Interested'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
===== In-Person Points of Contact for CoC Issues =====

* {{gwg}}: All attendees of Organizers Summit okay with being in-person contacts?
* {{aaronpk}}: we all look alike, so we should have more diverse points of contact. will ask organizer of Women Who Code.
** we should have ~4 points of contact.
*** {{tantek}}, {{aaronpk}}, aaronpk will contact at least one more
*** last year we had one more 

{{aaronpk}} - how this works:
* start of day - all contacts will be identified as contacts
* contacts must be familier with the CoC and related procedures
* contacts should provide phone # (assuming they have one) and email address they will monitor for more private communications
** {{martijnvdven}} volunteered to monitor an email address. also to monitor chat.

* in later discussion it was suggested {{macgenie}} should be an in-person contact for [[2018]].

===== Remote Points of Contact for CoC Issues =====
* contact form that goes to ... ?
** {{martijnvdven}}: offer separate contact info for organizers and contacts, so reporter can choose who to contact.
** {{t}}: sounds like extra IndieWeb Community Infrastructure (separate topic)
** we talked ourselves out of this. better to offer personal points of contact.

For issues in the community virtual spaces (IRC):
* {{aaronpk}}: anyone should feel empowered to discuss issues happening in the community (e.g. someone feels attacked). we want to curb behaviors that lead to someone feeling attacked, and that requires talking to the person who is the source of the behavior.
* {{martijnvdven}}: feels more comfortable starting a conversation about issues if listed as a point of contact.
** {{t}} I've seen such "lists" just devolve into useless threads and bikeshedding. From experience, I think using lists for such "soft" topics is an anti-pattern (makes the problem more likely worse than better) 
*** {{t}}: do you mean email lists??
*** {{aaronpk}}: yes - that was never a proposal :)
*** {{t}}: "on a list" sounds like email list in typical dev/internet-talk
*** {{aaronpk}}: ftfy
* {{aaronpk}} Code of Conduct page should have a "what to do if you experience a CoC violation" which includes a list of people who can be contacted. if you are contacted about a CoC violation - you don't have to be on the list to handle the issue.
* {{gRegor}}: points of contact should make sure their wiki user page links ways to contact them outside of chat.

'''Actions:'''
* leaders willing to be (no, make a precise list here) points of contact should add themselves (including local timezone) to [[code-of-conduct#Resolving_an_Issue]]
** {{martymcguire}}, {{aaronpk}}, {{martijnvdven}}, {{gRegor}}, {{calumryan}}, and {{macgenie}} added

=== IndieWeb principles split and reorg ===
When: 2018-06-25 11:05

'''Proposer:''' {{jgmac1106}}, 2018-04-18 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Organizers&diff=prev&oldid=46971]

* in order to have more inclusive, gen2-3-4 friendly indieweb descriptions, the idea to reorganize the principles had come up, starting from most gen4 oriented downwards to gen1 oriented.
** {{tantek}}: Start more modest, just rephrasing to be inclusive of gen2. Then get gen2 folks to help write a gen3 friendly version. It is highly unlikely that gen1 folks will be able to write effectively for gen3+ (too different a perspective).

'''Interested:'''
* {{petermolnar}}
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
Session goal: re-word the [[principles]] in a way that incrementally more accessible.

* {{jgmac1106}}'s post taking a stab at this: https://jgregorymcverry.com/drafting-indieweb-principles-for-the-rest-of-us/
* {{GWG}} what is the order of principles -- is the order meaningful?
* {{kevinmarks}}: slogan-y names that are easy to remember are more accessible to makers that are not coders
* {{tantek}} order should be about what's important and why you are in this specific community. Fun is important, but it's not an indieweb-community-defining feature. Indieweb started with own your data.
* {{schmarty}} the word "identity" does not appear on /principles currently

{{jgmac1106}}: The IndieWeb Community is  based on principles that define our efforts to unite people on an independent web where we all network from our own websites and blogs. The 11 principles below allow us all to own our data, take control of our identity, and stay connected with like minded people.
simpler intro draft:
    
{{jgmac1106}}: The IndieWeb Community is based on principles including: own your data, experience is more important than protocols, make thing for yourself first, document your stuff, build tools for yourself, plurality over monoculture, and remember to have fun!

Discussion on "Use visible data" - which can cover many meanings
* {{martymcguire}}: not clear what "machines" are being talked about
* accessibility (e.g. readable text)
* publish for people to read, not for search engines
* don't put public data behind paywalls, loginwalls, clickwalls
* {{t}}: Own your data. Your content, your metadata, your identity.
* {{t}}: "Use and publish visible data"
Publish public information where it's viewable, not behind a paywall, clickwall, or social network login.
* {{eddiehinkle.com}}: Is data an accessible term?
** "content"?

Publish for People.-We are all makers and creative by nature. Good content matters more than any like or Search Engine. When publishing your content make sure it is readable and accessible to the widest audience possible. This means publishing to your own website rather than just a social network where you need a sign in. Publishing for people also requires us to consider accessibility differences when choosing colors and images.

'''Document''' your stuff. You have made a place to share and speak your mind. When you publish content or build tools fit is helpful to share your story of the steps you take. Others will benefit, including your future self
* "You've built a..." change to "You've made a..."

'''Share''' your stuff. IndieWeb is an open source community. While you decide how to share  what you make  using an openly licesne  other people can get on the indie web quicker and easier.

Re-visit this as perennial topic and ongoing in chat / wiki edits

=== IndieWeb Community Infrastructure ===
When: 2018-06-25 12:??

* Re-evaluate sponsorship policy (aaronpk)
* reduce chat noise (jgmac1106)
* Rename IRC People (gRegorLove)

===== Re-evaluate sponsorship policy =====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}, 2018-04-19 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Organizers&diff=next&oldid=47014]

* Currently we have a bunch of links in the footer from hosts from several years ago. Might want to consider a more formal/strict policy of when those fall off the page and are only shown on the specific event page.

'''Interested:'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

====== Organizers Summit Discussion ======
* {{aaronpk}}: we have sponsors in our site footer that sponsored years ago. what if we rotated out everyone who hasn't sponsored an event in ~12 months?
* {{tantek}}: 3 years? this is a good marketing opportunity to show off big name sponsors. what is the downside to having big name sponsors?
** noticed a weird padding difference in his browser btwn footer on home page vs e.g. on /2018/Organizers
** {{aaronpk}}: big name sponsors on the homepage have no downside. small names or companies that have shut down...
** {{t}}: remove companies immediately if they shut down
* {{aaronpk}}: language also needs to clarify that IndieWebCamp *events* - not the (non-existent) IndieWeb organization - are sponsored.
** {{t}}: that's factually defensible.
* {{t}}: sponsorship gets you 1 year on the page for sure. 3 years becomes gray area. if a sponsor begins to exhibit unfriendly behavior against our principles, we can decide they don't reflect that. another trigger: upon acquisition, re-evaluate if the parent company is a good match.
* {{aaronpk}}: actually sent an email to a sponsor after a year and was rejected. {{t}}: after a year, upon a rejection, those should be dropped.
* {{aaronpk}}: without strong rules, we should set up times to review.
* {{t}}: perennial Organizers summit session to review.
* {{t}}: order by most recent. {{jgmac1106}}: biggest check? {{t}}: by year, then contribution value within year?
* {{t}}: where are the opencollective supporters? {{aaronpk}}: they're on the event page, could be here.

Mini-review happened.

===== reduce chat noise =====
* there's been complaints that there's too much bot chatter in channels
* {{aaronpk}} optimized Loqi in some instances, only creating one chat line for edits etc
* {{sknebel}} will hide some of [[Kaja]]s edits
* multiline-tweets can be big (often happens with {{tantek}}'s tweets, due to his posting style)
* POSSE-copies appear: recently regularly tweet, POSSE-copy to medium via superfeedr and original post via superfeedr appear - original post discovery would be interesting, but potentially tricky work
* tweets containing multiple trigger-words get sent to multiple channels
* it has been suggested to move (some of?) the notifications to a dedicated channel (#indieweb-firehose?)

====== Organizers Summit Discussion ======
Action: {{aaronpk}} will make an incremental improvement, de-duping notifications by having them only go to the "more specific" channel. e.g. a tweet w/ #indieweb and #webmention would go to #indieweb-dev, not #indieweb.

===== Rename IRC People =====
Redirect [[IRC People]] to something less about chat plumbing?

I like that we've moved away from linking "IRC" in pages and instead use "discuss". To go along with that, it seems like this page should follow suit. "Chat people" sounds hokey, but maybe something like "Chat community," "Discussion community," or similar. Possible issue: ensure the chat.indieweb.org logs follow the redirect. <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 15:11, 2 January 2018 (PST)

{{martijnvdven}}: [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Organizers&diff=next&oldid=47138] to encourage edits maybe some copy rewriting needs to be done to that page. The name “chat community” (by gRegor) makes sense to me, so the page could be made a bit more community oriented rather than technical?

====== Organizers Summit Discussion ======
Action: {{gRegor}} will change it to "Chat Names"

=== Discussion Channels ===

When: 2018-06-25 12:40

'''Proposer:''' {{GWG}}

Originally noted by {{martijnvdven}} on [[Organizers#Issues]] 2018-05-01 [https://indieweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=2018/Organizers&diff=next&oldid=47138]

[[2017/Organizers#Discussion_Channels|Previous Organizers Summit session]]

'''which channel for WordPress development'''
* There has been a little discussion about this again lately. As the appeal of the WordPress plugins is growing, more non-gen1 people turn up to #-wordpress looking for help setting things up. To not alienate these people, development talk has shifted back into #-dev.
* User support is nice in #-wordpress, as the main channel is mostly active with gen1-type people on their own custom workflows who can be of little help to WordPress setups. The people who do run WordPress are probably in #-wordpress and happy to help there.
* WordPress plugin development, especially if multiple devs are online, can quickly fill up all of #-dev. This was one of the original reasons there was a fork into #-wordpress: [[2017/Organizers#Discussion_Channels]] so we should stick with that. If there's a need for separate WP channels for WP users vs WP devs, we can consider that.

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
'''Action:''' update [[discuss]] (?), #indieweb-wordpress channel topic, and other pages to clarify that WordPress users *and* WordPress-related dev discussion happen in #indieweb-wordpress.

=== Diversity and Inclusion ===
When: 2018-06-25 12:45

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
* Goal: by next year let's have better representation in this room.
* {{martymcguire}} need more organizers.
* {{t}} leaders are going to reflect the community
* {{jgmac1106}} accessible path from participant, to organizer, to leader
* {{jgmac1106}} encourage Comp Sci programs to host HWC at smaller not top tier uni's
* {{calumryan}} look into codebar approaches and contacts (London/Brighton) very successful in regards to participation of under-respresented
* {{martymcguire}} encourage more HWC organizers to customize HWC for themselves and their communities
* {{aaronpk}} micro.blog is doing a great job at this. consult with {{macgenie}} and {{manton}} for advice!
* {{jgmac1106}} dangerous to say that we need to engage with gen2/3 to get a diverse community, suggests that we can't have a diverse gen1 community, which isn't true.
* {{jgmac1106}} - any post where we publicly set diversity goals.
** {{t}} - first indiewebcamp was ~25% women, there is a post that contrasts this with federated social web summit.
** {{gRegor}} - we have a [[diversity]] page with resources, but not data.
** {{aaronpk}} - has publishing about diversity goals for a community worked? {{t}} - we should adopt things that are known to work
* {{t}} - have had leaders that have dropped out. {{kongaloosh}}, {{rhiaro}}, Crystal. as far as we know none were pushed out by issues of community.
** {{gwg}} engagement and retention are things we should talk about in the future.

* {{t}} - travel fund - we had enough for a person! one person applied, but we got back to them too late and they had a schedule conflict come up.
** {{aaronpk}} - when they applied we didn't have enough in the fund, but we would have guaranteed it
** {{jgmac1106}} - i have worked with orgs that fundraise in 2017 for scholarships for 2018.
** {{t}} we have had successful travel fund use in the past.
** {{jgmac1106}} - applications for travel assistance need to go out 6 months before an event for e.g. visa applications.
* {{aaronpk}} - more planning and advance notice needed
** venue was confirmed 3 months before the event, needs to be much further in advance.
** this is part of not being an actual organization.
* {{sknebel}} - is there a travel fund team or is each IWC organizer responsible for their own? {{t}},{{aaronpk}} currently the latter.

'''Action:''' finalize dates and venue in January for the next IWS to leave time for travel assistance applications, time for applicants to also apply for visas and book flights.

* another suggestion: IWS on weekends again? taking time off on weekdays can hurt D&I. we'll know more after this IWS.
* ACTION: {{aaronpk}} - reflect on retention from Day 1 to Day 2 on Tuesday => Wednesday compared to past dropouts on Sat/Sun.

=== prep for keynotes tomorrow ===
When: 2018-06-25 13:10

'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

{{aaronpk}}: We should spend a little time prepping/rehearsing for keynote demos the next morning, to make sure the demos are snappy and to the point and don't take up a ton of the morning time. Last year I think we were a little too rambly in the morning without making a clear point.

{{gRegor}}: Review [[2018/Introduction]] and make sure it covers everything. See typical IWC introduction list in HTML comments on the page.

'''Interested:'''
* {{martymcguire}}
* {{addyourself}}

==== Organizers Summit Discussion ====
Keynotes from [[2018/Schedule]]
* What is the IndieWeb - Aaron Parecki - 
** old:  https://indieweb.org/2017/Introduction (12m last year, target 10m)
* State of the IndieWeb -  Tantek Çelik
* Micro.blog Community and Progress -  Jean MacDonald  Manton Reece
* The Next Wave of IndieWeb: Readers -  Aaron Parecki  Jonathan LaCour
* Imagining the Future -  William Hertling, author of Kill Process

* Basically re-use tantek's 2017 State of the indieweb https://indieweb.org/2017/state-of-indieweb (14:53 last year, target 10m)
** need: https://indieweb.org/2018/state-of-indieweb

* big things that happened:
** evolving [[principles]] to reach beyond coders
* Community Updates
** IndieAuth plugin for WordPress is new for the indieweb
** Modern Readers were a session last year, Together conceived, Microsub discussions started, Aperture, Indigneous built
* Micro.blog year two: more IndieWeb support and community since - Jean and Manton will speak to it
** introduce Jean and Manton and hand it over
  
Firming up hosting the morning.

https://indieweb.org/2018/Baltimore/Building_Blocks - presentation-ified wiki page that {{aaronpk}} used at IWC Baltimore.

Actions:
* {{aaronpk}} "What is the IndieWeb?" 
* {{t}} "State of the IndieWeb", leading into guest keynotes.
* {{martymcguire}} Collect intros from people in IRC and etherpad and present them quickly at the end of personal site intros
** name
** URL
** what do you want to demo?
*** URL to show
*** short description

== Task List ==
Note the tasks coming out of sessions.

* Document: jf2 spec is on indieweb, so makes sense for the code to live in same org as the spec - so we don't move it.
* CoC contacts: Leaders willing to be points of contact should add themselves (including local timezone) to [[code-of-conduct#Resolving_an_Issue]]
** Make sure your wiki user page has contact information as well
* reduce chat noise: {{aaronpk}} will make an incremental improvement, de-duping notifications by having them only go to the "more specific" channel. e.g. a tweet w/ #indieweb and #webmention would go to #indieweb-dev, not #indieweb.
* Finalize dates and venue in January 2019 for the next IWS to leave time for travel assistance applications, time for applicants to also apply for visas and book flights.
* {{aaronpk}}: reflect on retention from Day 1 to Day 2 on Tuesday => Wednesday compared to past dropouts on Sat/Sun.
*...

=== Completed ===
* <s>Rename [[irc-people]]: {{gRegor}} will change it to "Chat Names"</s>
** Done <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 23:22, 28 June 2018 (PDT)
* <s>Move: https://github.com/indieweb/php-mf2 (add {{gRegor}} to microformats gitub community, then he'll move it)</s>
** I tried, but I don't have permission. on https://github.com/indieweb/php-mf2/settings it says "Organization members cannot transfer repositories" <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 22:30, 28 June 2018 (PDT)
** Done <span class="h-card">{{sparkline|https://gregorlove.com/site/assets/files/3473/profile-2016-med.jpg}}  [[User:Gregorlove.com|gRegor Morrill]]</span> 12:19, 5 August 2018 (PDT)
* <s>Move: https://github.com/indieweb/microformats-ruby (contact {{jgarber}})</s>
* <s>Update [[discuss]] (?), #indieweb-wordpress channel topic, and other pages to clarify that WordPress users *and* WordPress-related dev discussion happen in #indieweb-wordpress.</s>

== Next Time ==
These topics were suggested but did not get discussed at this Organizers Summit.

They were re-added to the [[Organizers#Issues]] at [[2019/Organizers]] for re-processing, starting with:
* [[Organizers#non-profit_organization]] and subsequent issues 

Left here purely for historical reasons.

==== non-profit organization ====
'''Proposer:''' {{aaronpk}}

{{aaronpk}}: As the community grows, having a formal organization could benefit us in a few ways. There has been some talk in [[discuss|chat]] of a "bug bounty" program or having a fund to support individual projects. While I don't think IndieWeb itself should become a formal organization, there is definitely an opportunity for other individuals to form adjacent organizations to handle things.
{{ jgmac1106}}: I am applying for federal grants and there wasn't an organization or person I could point to or include. 

examples:
* [https://rubytogether.org/ Ruby Together] "Ruby Together is a grassroots initiative committed to supporting the critical Ruby infrastructure you rely on"
* [https://opencollective.com/ Open Together] "A system for Open Source 

related discussion:
* http://fionavoss.blog/2018/05/11/68541
* https://micro.blog/manton/554671

'''Interested:'''
* {{addyourself}}

==== Establish an IWC/training for University with Domains of Owns One Projects ====
'''Proposer:''' {{jgmac1106}},

* {{jgmac1106}}: There are a number of college administrators who have contacted us about trying to include IndieWeb into their Domain projects. {{gwg}} and {{chrisaldrich}} through around the idea of an IWC for this audience. May just want to think about a: are we ready? b: best approach to help.

==== IndieWeb Community Infrastructure ====
'''Proposer:''' {{martijnvdven}}

Currently the IndieWeb (as an organisation) is using several services, but it is not always clear who to contact about which part. It may be good to compile a list of third-parties that are depended upon, and who the contacts are for those.

Possible discussion points, taken from [[Organizers#Issues|the running issues]]:

* What services are essential for running the IndieWeb community resources, and who has access to them?
** Content
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[wiki]] [https://github.com/indieweb/wiki available on GitHub].
*** There is an entire back-up of the [[discuss|chat]] logs [https://github.com/indieweb/indieweb-chat-archive available on GitHub].
** Domain name(s)
*** Who has access to <code><nowiki>indieweb.org</nowiki></code>, can configure the DNS, etc?
*** How can access to these be split amongst several people?
** Communication
*** Who can manage the [[Slack]] server / channels?
*** Who can manage the [[IRC]] channels?
**** It looks like we have several <code>+o</code> people. Are they all listed as Founders or equal on ChanServ?
***** All 5 [[discuss#Chat_Channels|chat channels]] list {{benthatmustbeme}} and {{aaronpk}} as Founder. (Checkable by writing <code>/msg ChanServ INFO #indieweb</code> in your IRC client.)
**** all ops are in US timezones and thus not available on EU mornings (discussed 2017-12-17 due to small spam-wave on Freenode)
**** Is there anything to gain from [https://freenode.net/groupreg registering with Freenode]? (or has this been done already?)
*** Is there any managing we have to do for the [[Matrix]] bridge?
*** How quickly could a new Slack bridge be created if [[Loqi]] goes down? The bridge code is [https://github.com/aaronpk/Slack-IRC-Gateway available on GitHub].
** Official channels
*** Again, who has access, and what are the backups?
*** There is an official [[Twitter]]: [https://twitter.com/indiewebcamp @indiewebcamp]
*** There is an official [[GitHub]]: [https://github.com/indieweb/ IndieWeb]
** For projects we depend on, e.g. the Slack bridge, should they be mirrored to the indieweb GitHub account? That way the community has them even if the original author decides the remove their repository.
** Third parties we depend on? Can more of these be self-hosted?
*** Currently the wiki login only works through [[IndieAuth.com]].

''' Notes '''
* On 2018-05-01 [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-05-01/1525186645668800 several] [https://chat.indieweb.org/meta/2018-05-01/1525190543567300 people] brought up [https://www.voidlinux.eu/news/2018/05/serious-issues.html the issues faced by Void Linux]. Here the “project leader” “disappeared”, leaving things like DNS and GitHub uncontrollable by those still in the community.
* The wiki documents IndieWeb [[expenses]]. [[opencollective|Open Collective]] has a separate track of [https://opencollective.com/indieweb#expenses IndieWeb expenses]. These offer a glimpse of the services IndieWeb is paying for, but may not show the complete picture either.

''' Interested '''
* {{martijnvdven}}
* {{addyourself}}

=== 2017 Next Time ===
From: [[2017/Organizers#Task_List]]

* Discussion channels
** add bridged -meta
** keep wiki edits in -dev
** add bridged -wordpress
** update #indiechat topic to direct people to #indieweb-chat
* Logos
** consensus they're a good idea
** need to be well-designed, consistent
** used in footers of websites, github, icons, stickers
* Community Repos
** new criteria for moving in (and possibly moving out) repos to (and from) the indieweb org repo on GitHub
** have adaptable thresholds for projects that might need the extra nudge (and that do not allow much plurality anyway) like WP plugins
** aaronpk will look at his repos and possibly move things out. Put out a call to others to look at their repos to?
* organize next iterations on Nov 3 (before IWC Berlin)

'''Interested'''
* ... add yourself if you're interested in a session about this

== New ideas ==
If you will be participating in the Day 0 Organizers Summit, please add your session ideas here with name, hashtag, and session idea name. Please add nested list-items with "+1 yourname" for sessions you want to participate in!

See [[2017/Organizers#Sessions|Last Year's Sessions]] or [[2016/Organizers#Sessions|2016 Sessions]] for ideas. The global [[Organizers]] page has a running list of [[Organizers#Issues|issues]], some of which are very long-standing.

== Planning ==
When?
* Morning of 2018-06-25, because:
** morning = remote participation with European leaders
*** {{petermolnar}} that would be nice indeed
** the "before lunch" time is particularly effective at having a high-cognitive-functioning focused meetup to decide on "hard questions" of community and such
** break for lunch / random leader bonding activity
** afternoon: optional OSBridge barcamp day
** afternoon: or just enjoy Portland outdoors in the sunshine


'''Options: (please note your opinions/thoughts below!)'''
* 9:00-13:30, get your own breakfast beforehand (ok to bring in)
** ...
* 8:00-12:30, kick it off with a DIY veggie breakfast taco bar
** ...

== Photos ==
{{photosrcalt|src=https://indieweb.org/images/thumb/e/e3/2018-06-25-leaders-summit.jpg/800px-2018-06-25-leaders-summit.jpg|alt=Photo of attending leaders}}
'''The Organizers on call (not all pictured)'''

Missing: '''Out for lunch'''

== See Also ==
* [[2018|Back to IndieWeb Summit 2018]]


[[Category: IndieWeb Summit 2018]]
[[Category: Organizers Meetups]]
