https://indieweb.org/2018/Planning

Planning page for <dfn>IndieWeb Summit 2018</dfn>.

== Venue ==
* TBD

Venue ideas?
* Mozilla - can they host again this year?
** possibly - will look into it. - {{t}}
* Eliot Center - if run in conjunction with Open Source Bridge
* Alchemy Code Lab - they host [[Donut.js]] and other meetups

=== On-site Considerations ===
* food - vegetarian default
* on-site childcare (was asked about the week before [[2016]], so we should look into options, costs, possible sponsorship thereof etc.) note: we did not put this together in time for 2017 so will have to try again for 2018.

== Organizers ==
ðŸ¤“ Have you helped organize an IndieWebCamp or series of Homebrew Website Clubs and want to help out with our annual IndieWeb Summit? Add yourself below, and what you'd like to / are available help do to make the summit happen:
* {{aaronpk}} - onsite in Portland
<!-- * {{t}} - all kinds of wiki things (like this page and subpages), outreach, possibly cross-promotion with related events -->
* {{addyourself}}

=== Volunteers ===
ðŸ¤— Participated in an IndieWebCamp and want to help out new folks? Or just passionate to help out any way you can? Add yourself here!
* {{gRegor}}
* {{addyourself}}

== Keynotes ==
What keynotes shall we have? Brainstorm below (subjects, and speaker suggestions optional but also ok)
* What is the IndieWeb?
* State of the IndieWeb
* ...

== Leaders Summit ==
{{main|2018/Leaders}}

Similar to [[2016/Leaders]] & [[2017/Leaders]], the [[2018/Leaders|Leaders]] Summit sessions are open to everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] from 2015-2017 or at least two [[Homebrew Website Club]] meetups during those years, and posted at least one meetup photo. If you're not sure, ask an [[2017#Organizers|organizer]].

<!--
=== Additional Event Links ===
Need to add IndieWeb Summit 2018 to:
* Facebook
* W3C Other Events: https://www.w3.org/participate/otherevents/
* ...
-->

== Possible Dates ==
Possible dates (Saturday+Sunday unless otherwise indicated)
* June 23-24
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{t}}
** +1 {{eddiehinkle.com}}
** +1 {{martymcguire}}
** ...

* June 30-July 1
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** -1 {{t}} - have conflict
** -1 {{martymcguire}} - possible conflict
** ...

We may run the event as part of Open Source Bridge 2018. The dates for that will be the week of June 25-29.

* June 26-27 (Tuesday-Wednesday)
** +0.5 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{t}}
** +0.5 {{martymcguire}}
** ...

* June 28-29 (Thursday-Friday)
** +0.5 {{gRegor}}
** -1 {{t}} - have conflict
** -0.5 {{martymcguire}} - possible conflict
** ...

Rejected dates (all well below candidate dates above)
* ...

Vague date related thoughts:
* 2.5 days again (half day leaders summit, 1 day intro/brainstorming, 1 day hackday)
* ...

Other events with similar audiences:
* ? [http://opensourcebridge.org/ Open Source Bridge], Portland, OR
* ...

Other events / possible conflicts:
* 2018-06-11..15 [https://wiki.mozilla.org/All_Hands/SF2018 Mozilla All Hands SF]
* 2018-07-02..05 [https://wiki.csswg.org/planning/sydney-2018 CSSWG meeting]
** requires flying out of SFO/Westcoast 2018-06-29 due to intl dateline + travel time.
* 2018-07-14..20 IETF 102 Montreal https://ietf.org/meeting/upcoming.html
* ...

== Notes from previous years ==
Notes from after 2017 IndieWeb Summit to keep in mind for this year

* In 2017 we had 50 registrations, and ordered food for 40.
* 31 people attended on day 1, and 21 attended on day 2.
* Hot breakfast on day 1 was great, and many people ate the leftovers for lunch that day. We still had too much left over though.
* We consistently have people drop out the second day, so we can likely order less food for the second day than the first.
* We had way too many bagels for day 2 breakfast. We can probably order 1 bagel for every 2 people.
* The afternoon coffee refresh was a good idea, but it should have come around 2pm instead of 3pm. Also we didn't need as much as was ordered. The 4 coffees in the morning was a good amount, and probably needed only 2 more in the afternoon.
* An external sign out on the street would have made it easier to find.
* Several remote attendees filled out the ti.to registration, so we should make sure it's clear that the ti.to registration is just for in-person attendance.
* Some people registered on ti.to twice, a month apart. Not sure what the problem there was or how to fix it.
* We lost the beginning of the demos because Wirecast on the computer that was recording/streaming to youtube crashed. In the future, we should record the Vidyo stream in the main room as well as a backup.
** Wait I thought we did, didn't we? - {{t}}
* We forgot to take a group photo on day 2.
* Designate a camera-free area (like a conference room without a Vidyo setup) for people to use to type in passwords when they want to make sure they aren't being livestreamed and filmed at multiple angles

== See Also ==
* [[2018]]
* [[2018/Schedule]]
* [[:Category:2018]]
