https://indieweb.org/2019/Planning

{{stub}}

<span class="p-summary">Welcome to the planning page for <dfn>IndieWeb Summit [[2019]]</dfn>.</span>

== Dates ==
* June 28th: [[2019/Organizers]] Summit, see '''[[Organizers]]''' if you want to participate!)
* June 29-30th IndieWeb Summit

== Venue ==
* Venue: Mozilla Portlnd
** We will have the Commons room on the third floor the whole two days
** Includes lobby for registration, kitchen for food
** {{t}}: TO DO: Need to reserve rooms for BarCamp sessions

== Tickets and Registration ==
* Ticketing:
** Our tickets are available at https://2019.indieweb.org/summit

== Volunteers ==
We need a few volunteers to cover a few tasks during the event!

Volunteers:
* {{gregorlove}} volunteers co-ordinator, note-taking in #indieweb during [[2019/Intros]]
* {{schmarty}} [[2019/Intros]] timer
* {{andigalpern}} photos
* {{anomalily}} t-shirts at checkin
* ...


Volunteer tasks: (feel free to grab one and put it next to your name in the list above!)
* setting up the stickers / pins / name badges table (and checking it regularly)
* setting up the session grid rows and columns in a good spot (see [[2018]] for last year's)
* helping folks set up (or restore) personal websites! (e.g. walking them thru [[Getting Started]] with at least getting a [[domain name]], and using the [https://github.com/indieweb/blank-gh-site/ blank GitHub static home page] to start with
** Would be great to help in particular with (1) leading a Getting Started session on day 1, (2) setting aside an hour on day 2 to help people
* ...


{|border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0" width="100%"
| What
| When
| Details
| Who
|-
| Registration (Day 1)
| Saturday 8:45 - 9:45am
| Greet people and check in as they come in, help fill out nametags. There will be an iPad mini to check people off as they arrive.
| {{gRegor}}
|-
| Registration (Day 2)
| Sunday 8:45 - 9:45am
| Greet people and check in as they come ins. There will be an iPad mini to check people off as they arrive.
| {{gRegor}}
|-
| Remote Participation Room 1
| Saturday and Sunday
| Provide equipment for and run remote participation for this breakout room
| ... {{addyourself}}
|-
| Remote Participation Room 2
| Saturday and Sunday
| Provide equipment for and run remote participation for this breakout room
| ... {{addyourself}}
|-
| Remote Participation Room 3
| Saturday and Sunday
| Provide equipment for and run remote participation for this breakout room
| ... {{addyourself}}
|}

== To-do ==
Moved todo list to GitHub issues: 

[https://github.com/indieweb/2019.indieweb.org/milestone/1 IndieWeb Summit Todo]

Assigned todos:
* [https://github.com/indieweb/2019.indieweb.org/issues/assigned/aaronpk aaronpk]
* [https://github.com/indieweb/2019.indieweb.org/issues/assigned/tantek tantek]

=== Press ===
* Can we contact folks we reached out to for [[2018/Planning#Press]]?
* ... 

=== Invitations ===
Know someone who should be at IndieWeb Summit? Add them here and hopefully someone else in the community will know them personally and can reach out!

Though anyone can sign themselves up, an explicit personal invitation often motivates people to attend and participate in IndieWebCamps.

If you're not sure about someone, feel free to ask in informally IndieWeb [[chat]].

Add as much as you can of: full name (given family), website URL, Twitter, reasons why (e.g. indieweb related blog posts, projects, adjacent communities etc.)

=== To Be Invited ===
Participants:
* Mamie Rheingold - works with Humane Tech per ([https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/11/the-binge-breaker/501122/ this Atlantic article])
*LGBTQ community in PDX area {your name here}
*Art organizations in the PDX area {your name here}

Press:
* Klint Finley - wrote about IndieWeb for Wired http://klintfinley.com/

Local:
*Mozilla folks (including alumni) in PDX area {your name here}

Other:
* ...

=== Have Invited ===
If you know someone above personally, reach out to them, preferably openly (e.g. with a blog post, tweet, logged IRC), and document when / with permalink your invitation!

* {{jgmac1106}} reach out to edCamp pdx
**Contacted all organizers via Twitter and emailed
*{{jgmac1106}} state university and community college faculty and computer science club
**Email sent to Portland Community College
**Email sent to Clark College
**Email sent to Clackamass Community College
**Email sent to Mt Hood Community College
**Email senty to Portland State University Computer Science Department
*Tech diversity allies in PDX {your name here}
**emailed PDXWIT
**emailed TechRisePDX
**emailed the Urban League
**emailed freegreek.org
*{{jgmac1106}} Adult education and library programs in PDX
* ...

=== Cannot Make It ===
* ...

== Organizers ==
moved to [[2019/Organizers]]

== Costs ==
{{main|2019/expenses}}
Estimated expenses for IndieWeb Summit

{|border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0" width="100%"
| Est. Amt.
| Actual Amt.
| What/Where
| Sponsor
| Notes
|-
| colspan=5| '''Organizers' Summit'''
|-
| $100
| 
| Breakfast
| Mozilla
|
|-
| colspan=5| '''Pre-Party'''
|-
| $300
| 
| Bar tabs at Pine St Market
| Name.com
| estimated 30-40 people
|-
| colspan=5| '''Day 1'''
|-
| $200
|
| Breakfast and coffee,
| 
| estimated 50 attendees
|-
| colspan=5| '''Day 2'''
|-
| $200
|
| Breakfast and coffee,
| 
| estimated 50 attendees
|-
| $500
| 
| Catered Lunch
| 
|
|-
| colspan=5| '''Other Costs'''
|-
| $???
|
| 
| Tickets/Sponsorship
|
|-
| $???
| 
| Supplies
| Tickets/Sponsorship
| Post-its, lanyards, paper, stickers
|}

== Keynotes ==
What keynotes shall we have? Brainstorm below (subjects, and speaker suggestions optional but also ok)

New this year:
* ...

Updates (similar to past years)
* What is the IndieWeb?
** {{aaronpk}}/{{t}} - let's show instead of tell, lightning self / *personal* site (not project) intros - 1-2 min max?. (aside: save the personal *project* intros for day 2)
* State of the IndieWeb
** {{t}} - can put together an update similar to past years
* ...

== Organizers Summit ==
{{main|2019/Organizers}}

Similar to [[2016/Organizers]], [[2017/Organizers]], [[2018/Organizers]], the [[2019/Organizers|Organizers]] Summit sessions are open to everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] from 2015-2018 or at least two [[Homebrew Website Club]] meetups during those years, and posted at least one meetup photo. If you're not sure, ask an [[2019#Organizers|organizer]].

<!--
=== Additional Event Links ===
Need to add IndieWeb Summit 2019 to:
* Facebook
* W3C Other Events: https://www.w3.org/participate/otherevents/
* ...
-->

== Notes from previous years ==
See [[2018/Planning#Notes_from_previous_years]]
Notes from after 2017 IndieWeb Summit to keep in mind for this year

== Remote Viewing Party ==
Some people are thinking of meeting up in Europe to join remotely all from the same location. A bit like the previous [[2018#Berlin_Remote_Event|Berlin Remote Event]].

{{martijnvdven}} is able to run an event in Åmål in colaboration with [https://www.sv.se/avdelningar/sv-vast/ Studieförbundet Vuxenskola Väst]. SV is able to provide several rooms, internet connectivity, projector for remote viewing of [[2019|the main event]], and coffee and tea. The venue should be available to us all throughout the night, if desired.

'''Help wanted''' for planning and finalising an actual schedule!

(Possible trip to [http://dalslandsmooseranch.se/english/ the Moose Ranch] for guaranteed Moose petting!)

* {{rose}} would love to attend

=== Schedule ===

Suggestions for the schedule are welcome:
* {{rose}} suggests starting at lunchtime with local sessions/intros, and then progressing into the evening with remote viewing/participation in Portland.

== Archived Planning ==
Planning dates and venue possibilities for IndieWebSummit [[2019]] in Portland!

Can help co-organize:
* {{t}}
* {{aaronpk}}
* ...

Venue possibilities
* Mozilla PDX
* The Cleaners at the ACE (cost? only has maybe 1-2 upstairs small rooms for breakouts)
* ...

=== Possible Dates ===

Dates (2019 June), consider (Th)FSa and (F)SaSu variants, (parens) for Organizers / pre-party / social
* '''6/29-30 (Saturday / Sunday) SAVE THE DATES'''
** +1 {{aaronpk}}
** +1 {{t}}
** +1 {{martymcguire}}
** +1 {{jgmac1106}} later in June better for parents in NorthEast due to snow day and school calendar extensions
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{cleverdevil}} this is likely the best date for me
**  +1/0/-1 {{addyourself}} because reasons
* 6/8-9 (Saturday / Sunday)
** +1 {{aaronpk}}
** -1 {{gwg}}
** +1 {{martymcguire}}
** -1 {{jgmac1106}} brother's wedding
** +1 {{t}} but prefers end of the month
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{rose}} - probably adjacent to WWDC, so I could make it!
**  +1/0/-1 {{addyourself}} because reasons
* 6/15-16 (Saturday / Sunday)
** +1 {{aaronpk}}
** -1 {{t}}: conflict on 6/15 with [https://brazenracing.com/doubledipsea/ Double Dipsea race]
** -1 {{martymcguire}}: conflict with [https://www.nomcon.org/ Nation of Makers Con]
** -1 {{jgmac1106}} last week of school for the kids
** +0 {{gRegor}} I can make this but the co-organizers should be there :)
**  +1/0/-1 {{addyourself}} because reasons
* 6/22-23 (Saturday / Sunday)
** +1 {{aaronpk}}
** -1 {{t}}: conflict with [https://wiki.mozilla.org/All_Hands/Whistler2019 Mozilla All Hands] the week before in Whistler, VC
** +1 {{martymcguire}}
** +1 {{jgmac1106}} unless {{t}} can get me a spot at all-hands
** +0 {{gRegor}} I can make this but the co-organizers should be there :)
**  +1/0/-1 {{addyourself}} because reasons

=== On-site Considerations ===
* food - vegetarian default
** we can order food in for day 2 if we want

=== Archived Todo ===
==== Todos moved to GitHub ====
* {{t}} URGENT: confirm whether there is ethernet available at Mozilla that the captionist can use. Need to confirm this in order to know whether they can broadcast the captions to a URL or only to a TV in the room.
** Have asked. May need to better understand what is the exact setup that the Ethernet is needed for? Is it being plugged into a laptop? Mirrored display? Something else?
** we will need somewhere the captionist can plug her laptop in to Ethernet as well as HDMI to one of the TVs. She also needs an audio feed from the main audio board, so probably somewhere near that is best, or maybe even inside the video control room. <span class="h-card" style="white-space:nowrap">{{sparkline|https://aaronparecki.com/photo.jpg}} [[User:Aaronparecki.com|Aaron Parecki]]</span> 07:19, 17 June 2019 (PDT)
* {{t}}: update [https://twitter.com/indiewebcamp/lists/indieweb-summit-2019/members Twitter list of participants] from https://2019.indieweb.org/summit
* {{aaronpk}} Figure out and document [[remote participation]] so a volunteer can help with it!
* Figure out necessary RSVP fixes (to parsers, WordPress plugins, wiki pages, documentation) 
** e.g. https://myravery.me/2019/06/06/indieweb-summit-portland/
* update and send [[2019/Planning/update-email]] to registered attendees
* {{t}} Create and stub all redlinked wiki pages!
* document [[2019/expenses|expenses]]
* execute outreach plan focused on [[inclusivity]]

==== Done ====
* {{aaronpk}} Create "Remote Participation" section on [[2019]], starting with [[2018/#Participating]] and adding enough description/links to folks can sign-up, prepare their setups in advance (any software/testing needed etc.)
** Perhaps you can copy and past a bit from here: https://indieweb.org/IndieWebCamps/Attendance#Technology
* Order lanyards and name badges
** we have red, yellow and black lanyards
** we have branded hanging nametags that we used for the previous two summits
* {{aaronpk}} T-shirts are ordered and will arrive in time for Summit
* {{t}} send out emails for travel scholarships
* {{t}},{{aaronpk}}: pick keynote speaker(s)
** 3 invited keynotes confirmed (+2 by {{t}}, {{aaronpk}}
** one bonus invitation outstanding

[[Category: IndieWeb Summit 2019]]

== Lessons Learned ==
* Need a "intros" (and hack day) demo switching plan/process, and a dedicated volunteer to help with it to minimize downtime between demos (in order to fit in as many demos as possible, e.g. if we want to scale to 50-100 demos)
** ideas like setup a demo laptop and have all those who can show on that first
** setup two demo laptops and switch video presentation between so the next person can have their personal site loaded and ready to go while the current person is speaking/demoing
** setup a lightning connector option for people to quickly connect their iPhone/iPod/iPad to show/demo their already loaded site.
* :( GitHub Issues for planning: {{t}} wasn't very productive with updating or commenting on any GitHub planning issues and just maintained his own plain text list (too much hassle futzing with GitHub web UI on a single issue by issue basis). Many (most?) issues required real-time conversation to efficiently resolve, and async-comment-style discussion (GitHub issues) is ill-suited for that (too much cognitive load to switch into an issue thread context and switch out while waiting for replies etc.)
** {{aaronpk}} on the other hand had a much better time using github issues compared to previous methods such as large blocks of text on the wiki. Large blocks of wiki text are too much to skim for a status overview. When trying to focus on just one task, the block-of-text method makes discussions/progress difficult to see, and it's also hard to focus on just one task when the other tasks are visible above/below the one you're looking at. Using GitHub issues meant that it was easy to see the full thread and focus on just one thing at a time.
* we need time between session scheduling and the first session in order to set up the schedule grid on the wiki
** could we do session scheduling *before* lunch and first session after lunch? that would give time for setting up the schedule grid at the start of lunch
** some people were adding notes to the "TBD" etherpad since all the sessions had linked out to that pad name before-hand
*** perhaps unlinked "Etherpad TBD" would solve that aspect at least
*** {{gRegor}}: Usually I've had the session/etherpad placeholders commented out until the session schedule is done, so that's one option. I also updated https://etherpad.indieweb.org/tbd day-of to indicate it's a placeholder and notes shouldn't be taken there, so this hopefully won't be a problem going forward either way.
** alternatively, if the etherpad links don't need to be named the hashtag, then they could be created ahead of time. (e.g. red-session-1, yellow-session-2)
*** {{gRegor}} -0.5. [[:Template:iwc-session-links]] autolinks to the to-be-created wiki page using the hashtag, so this would require more editing post-camp when archiving etherpad notes.
** since the etherpads are ephemeral and get archived to the wiki anyway, this may be good enough
** {{gRegor}}: I think we mentioned during [[2019/Organizers]] the [https://martymcgui.re/2018/01/23/iwc-baltimore-2018--session-planning-planning/ session facilitator cards] that Marty used for [[2018/Baltimore]]. That sheet includes good instructions for the etherpad and session facilitating.
* ...

== See Also ==
* [[2019]]
* [[2019/Schedule]]
