https://indieweb.org/2016/Organizers

{{stub}}

The '''<dfn>Organizers' Summit</dfn>''' is a half-day of activities and sessions before [[2016|IndieWeb Summit 2016]], for everyone who has co-organized an [[IndieWebCamp]] from 2014-2016 or at least two Homebrew Website Club meetups, and posted at least one meetup photo. If you're not sure, ask an [[2016#Organizers|organizer]]. 
* Want to organize an IndieWebCamp before the Summit?
** See [[IndieWebCamp#How_to_organize|IndieWebCamp: How to organize]]
* Want to organize Homebrew Website Club meetups before the Summit?
** See [[Homebrew_Website_Club#Getting_Started_or_Restarting|Homebrew Website Club: Getting Started]]

== Location ==
* [https://foursquare.com/v/garden-bar/52ec092f498ef51dfdcc12ac Garden Bar], 25 NW 11th Ave
* [https://foursquare.com/v/vadio/51d3499c498e0485ad6c2428 Vadio], 919 SW Taylor, 3rd Floor (same venue as IndieWeb Summit)

== Schedule ==
Friday 2016-06-03:
* 12:00 Organizers' Summit (OS) start &amp; intros (Meet at Garden Bar)
* 13:00 Organizers' Summit Sessions (move to Vadio)
* 17:00 Organizers' Summit Wrap-up & Next Steps
* 17:30 Organizers' Summit close.

== RSVP ==
Please add yourself below if you will be participating in the Organizers' Summit (alphabetical by full name)
* {{aaronpk}}
* {{rhiaro}}
* {{benwerd}}
* {{gwg}}
* {{gRegor}}
* {{julieannenoying}}
* {{kylewm}}
* {{veganstraightedge}}
* {{t}}

=== Remote Participation ===
If you can't make it in person but you're available to participate remotely, please add yourself below
* {{benthatmustbeme}}  - Not sure how much I will be able to attend as this falls smack in the middle of moving houses, but I will be on as much as I can.
* {{jeena}} - It's a bit faar but I will attend remote, sounds cool!
* {{jkphl}} IRC and video (at least part-time)
* {{kevinmarks}} IRC and video
* [[User:Marcthiele.com|Marc Thiele]] - would be fab to have the option. Sadly I can't make it to Portland. Away with the family. But hope to have a connection to be part remotely
* {{snarfed}} I'll be on IRC!
* ...

=== Regrets ===
Sorry to miss you, let us know if you can't make it and we'll try to reach out with specifics that may apply to your city.
* {{voxpelli}} â€“ Sadly don't think I can make it to Portland this year and due to the time zones remote attendance will be hard.
* {{kartik}}
* {{sandro}} can't make it until Friday night
* ...

== Photos ==
[[File:2016-06-03-leaders-summit.jpg|700px]]

See more photos: [https://www.flickr.com/photos/tollwerk/sets/72157669290044195/ IndieWeb Organizers' Summit 2016 Portland] set by {{julieannenoying}}


Lunch to go (eat outside) - photos and animated gif by {{julieannenoying}}

[https://twitter.com/iwontsignuphere/status/897196758262046721 <raw><video style="max-width:100%" poster="https://pbs.twimg.com/tweet_video_thumb/DHN7lISWAAQEeLZ.jpg" src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/DHN7lISWAAQEeLZ.mp4" type="video/mp4" muted="muted" autoplay="yes" loop="yes"></video></raw>]


{{t}}: a few photos:

[[File:2016-06-03-new-sticker.jpg|700px]]

[[File:2016-06-03-finished-leaders-summit.jpg|700px]]

[[File:2016-06-03-ground-kontrol.jpg|700px]]

== Notes ==
* [https://indiewebcamp.com/irc/2016-06-03#t1464985165654 IRC notes]

== Sessions ==
If you will be participating in the Day 0 Organizers' Summit, please add your session ideas here with name, hashtag, and session idea name. Please add nested list-items with "+1 yourname" for sessions you want to participate in!

=== event registration ===
Timebox: 15 min.
* {{aaronpk}} Let's talk about improving the event registration process having learned from previous years wiki RSVPs vs ti.to registrations vs indie RSVPs. E.g. datapoints:
** people indie RSVPd but didn't ti.to: https://indiewebcamp.com/irc/2016-06-02#t1464901363292
*** {{tantek}}, {{emmak}}, {{benwerd}}, {{kylewm}}, {{chrisaldrich}}
** people edited the wiki, didn't ti.to or indie RSVP: https://indiewebcamp.com/irc/2016-06-02#t1464906696677
*** {{GWG}}, {{sandro}}
**Noting that there's no mention of ti.to at https://indiewebcamp.com/2016 under RSVP

=== growing ===
Timebox: 1 hour
==== numbers ====
* {{t}} #growing: participation in existing events, more event in current cities, and more cities.
** +1 {{veganstraightedge}}
** +1 {{shaners}}

==== diversity ====
* {{t}} #[[diversity]]
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{aaronpk}} what specifically should we talk about?
** +1 {{benwerd}}
** +1 {{veganstraightedge}}

==== generations ====
* {{t}} #generations: Where are we today with [[Generations]]
** What do we need to do to reach the next level of folks?
** On the other end, how can we iterate on [[IndieMark]] to help guide and push the edges?
** +1 {{aaronpk}} some good reading related to this topic: [https://www.harihareswara.net/sumana/2016/05/21/0 Inessential Weirdnesses in Open Source Software]
** More good reading: {{kylewm}}'s [https://kylewm.com/2016/05/bridging-the-indieweb-generation-gap Bridging the IndieWeb Generation Gap]
** +1 {{kylewm}}
** +1 {{benwerd}}

=== presenting ===
Timebox: 1 hour
==== rename to indieweb ====
{{main|rename to IndieWeb}}
* {{aaronpk}} (for {{benthatmustbeme}}) Rename main IndieWebCamp identity to "IndieWeb" - indiewebcamp.com redirect to indieweb.org, change IRC channel from #indiewebcamp to #indieweb and other related #indieweb-* channels.  Maybe keep a separate channel for logs of camps and HWCs so as not to make it difficult for people to read when there is a camp going on (i'm probably going too far with that).  All channels being bridged between slack would be nice as well.
** +1 {{aaronpk}} 
** {{miklb}} potentially move Loqi notifications regarding wiki edits to -dev or some other internal channel. Also think about testing wiki definitions outside of main channel. I would also suggest thinking about the retweets and other automated messages in the channel intended for newcomers be minimized if possible.
*** +1000 to everything miklb said :) {{kylewm}}
* ...

Tasks:
* create a new page with the proposal and details
* encourage +1/0/-1 on the proposal (like we did with the logo)
* goal: flip the switch on 2016-07-04

==== homepage ====
* {{veganstraightedge}} #[[2016/homepage|homepage]]: Outside of the scope of the newskin, I think we can make the homepage better or redesign it altogether. 
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{kylewm}}
** +1 {{aaronpk}} I support this, but it's a dangerous rabbit hole to go down, and likely requires more time than a single session at this event. Maybe we can come up with some goals for what a new homepage should do as an outcome of this discussion.

Like: (good examples that have gotten good feedback in)
* 2016.indieweb.org
* atom.io

==== newskin ====
* {{t}} #[[2016/newskin|newskin]]! Finalize new wiki skin changes, update/upgrade the wiki as needed, with new theme, new logo, etc.
** +1 {{gRegor}}
** +1 {{aaronpk}} no time to actually do this before IWS, but let's make a plan for what to do after next week

== Task List ==
* Wiki skin
** <s>Upload new logo and switch wiki skin to Vector</s> '''completed 2016-06-04'''
** <s>Copy sponsor logos to home page</s>
** '''completed ????-??-??'''
* <s>Create multiple Freenode IRC channels and mirror them to Slack
** #indieweb - main channel, tweets and superfeedr search for "indieweb"
** #indieweb-dev - development chatter, jargon is fine, wiki edits go here, spec-related tweets here
** #indieweb-wordpress 
** #indieweb-chat - off-topic chatter, not publicly logged</s> 
** '''completed 2017-02-04 [https://aaronparecki.com/2017/02/04/8/day-46-slack-irc-gateway]
* <s>Write a wiki page proposal about wiki name change (indiewebcamp.com -> indieweb.org)</s> '''completed 2016-06-07: [[rename to IndieWeb]]'''
** <s>Including list of work: redirects, subdomains, channels</s>
* <s>Hide RTs for recently-tweeted tweets</s>
** '''completed ????-??-??'''
* Home page
** Move events content from home page to events.indieweb.org or for the time being, /events
** Make the content appropriate for the next generation of people that we want to attract
** Make sure home page is still personable, has photos, shows community

== Next Time ==
* "goodie bags" for organizers with things like:
** packets of stickers (e.g. with the new logo, microformats, webmention, etc.) for handing out at their next HWC meetups or IWCs.
* ...

== See Also ==
* [[2016|Back to IndieWeb Summit 2016]]


[[Category: IndieWeb Summit 2016]]
[[Category: Organizers Meetups]]
